---

title: GitKraken Client 1.x
description: View a history of the new features and fixes in GitKraken Client's Version 1.
og_image: /img/GitKrakenClient-Hero.png

---

Behold the evolution of GitKraken Client! Find out what&rsquo;s new, what&rsquo;s fixed, or just take a trip down memory lane with a nostalgic swagger, remembering those bugs of yesterday.

***
<a id="v1-9-3"></a>
## Version 1.9.3
<h3>Monday, December 5, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Fix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

* Oh dear. Our 1.9.2 update broke fetching, pushing and pulling when connecting to hosts without GitKraken Client integration (GitLab, etc). This should now be working as expected.

***
<a id="v1-9-2"></a>
## Version 1.9.2
<h3>Monday, December 5, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

* The context menu for stashes took an unexpected sabbatical in 1.9.1, but now it&rsquo;s back and better than ever!
* Some users have been harassed by a persistent message, telling them that their Bitbucket tokens &ldquo;need more permissions.&rdquo; It&rsquo;ll no longer pester you, promise.
* The GitKraken Store was stubbornly caching data. We&rsquo;ve cleaned that up, because if we add a comma somewhere, you deserve to see that comma _right away_!


***
<a id="v1-9-1"></a>
## Version 1.9.1
<h3>Tuesday, November 15, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

* Uh oh. GitKraken Client would spring a memory leak for some users when the commit list was updated, negatively affecting performance, hogging system memory and raining on the performance parade in general. We prioritized fixing that issue, sorry.
* Avast me hearties! If ye be sailing these SSH high seas, in some cases, the port number would disappear from your URI (`U R AYE!`). Arr, we&rsquo;d be a bunch of scallywags if we didn&rsquo;t fix that, so we&rsquo;ve made that bug walk the plank into shark infested waters! Arrrr. It be smooth sailing through your ports now, scoundrels.
* Did we mention the memory thing already? Something about a leak. Can’t remember.

***
<a id="v1-9-0"></a>
## Version 1.9.0
<h3>Wednesday, November 2, 2016</h3>

<p><strong>This is the release for GitHub Enterprise. Its continuing mission: to allow for locally hosted GitHub accounts; to seek out new connection possibilities in a civilized manner; to <strong>boldly</strong> work where no client has worked before.</strong></p>

<h3>New</h3>

* GitHub Enterprise support! **<span style='color: #15a0bf'>Pro Feature</span>** <br>If you&rsquo;re using GitHub&rsquo;s self-hosted platform, GitKraken Client will play nicely with it. It won&rsquo;t snatch, won&rsquo;t throw tantrums, and it will share. In fact, it will offer you all the features that make working with regular GitHub.com services in GitKraken Client so seamless, without having to leave the app:

    * Create pull requests
    * Create repositories including .gitignore and license files
    * Generate and verify SSH keys
    * Save authentication into profiles
    * Clone from GitHub Enterprise repo list
    * Add remote repos

* Those of you on 64-bit Windows can now download a 64-bit version of GitKraken Client! Wrap your tentacles around it [here](https://www.gitkraken.com/download/windows64). The app also displays which version (32- or 64-bit) you are running, for reference.
* Tag folders: Just as with branch folders, you can now keep your tags in an organized and visually tidy order with tag folders. Ah, that&rsquo;s better!
* Remember the left panel search? Well, now, when you type, the search term you&rsquo;re typing will be highlighted in the filtered items. This is for your eyeballs. We hope they find it useful.

<h3>Fixed/Improved</h3>

* Error log, supplemental: The crew has been alerted to a strange phenomenon resulting in cryptic messages about `scopes` being `included in other scopes`. We sent an away team to investigate these `scopes`, their customs and their weaponry, and it would appear that the crew is now returning to normal, thanks to GitKraken Engineering.
* The GitFlow panel static path prefix is now correctly, vertically aligned with the rest of the text. Yes, these minor imperfections add a certain charm and gritty character to the app, but it&rsquo;s better this way.
* Left panel style tweaks to make you smile more or grimace less.
* Attempting to add an external SSH key to a service would initiate a super secret and unintentional broken SSH mode that nobody wanted.
* This release wouldn&rsquo;t be the same without one of those good ol &lsquo;generic javascript error&rsquo; messages you&rsquo;ve grown to love. Eliminated in this release: <code>Cannot read property &lsquo;deletePassword&rsquo; of undefined.</code> Absolute classic. You&rsquo;ll miss that one, now that it&rsquo;s gone.

***
<a id="v1-8-1"></a>
## Version 1.8.1
<h3>Monday, October 24, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

* There was some lag when typing in the commit message input field, but it now keeps up with the fracking pace, thank the Gods.
* The graph no longer renders while a repo is being opened, which makes the process a bit faster and less distracting.
* Pushes would sometimes fail with a <code>Cannot read property &lsquo;cancelled&rsquo; of undefined</code> message. That was obstructive, unhelpfully ambiguous and a bit of a negative nelly kind of message. So depressing! So fixed!
* If you tried to focus the left panel filter when the left panel was hidden, it would unleash a whole world of nope where you&rsquo;d not be able to refocus it. It now behaves as expected, sorry.

***
<a id="v1-8-0"></a>
## Version 1.8.0
<h3>Monday, October 17, 2016</h3>

**Folders, Filters and Fixes, Oh My!**

<h3>New</h3>

* GitKraken Client&rsquo;s left panel has been even _more_ improved with some big new features:

* **Branch folders:** Branch structures are now represented in beautiful, intuitive folder systems. Rejoice! At a glance, you can now see your folders and subfolders as actual folders and–yes–subfolders. The logical, clear, hierarchical structure will bring a nice, orderly tear to your eye.
* **Button tooltips:** Left panel buttons (such as the <kbd>&gt;</kbd> for GitFlow or the <kbd>+</kbd> for add remote) now have cute little tooltips to confirm their function. Adorable!
* **Left panel filter:** If you have a lot going on in your repo, finding relevant items can be complicated, resulting in copious scrolling, looking around, and frowning. GitKraken Client is designed to make you click and scroll less, not more, so we&rsquo;ve worked hard on a new filter feature for the left panel. You can filter the _entire_ panel, including:

    * Branches
    * Remotes
    * Pull requests
    * Tags
    * Stashes
    * Submodules

* Use keyboard shortcut <kbd>&#8984; | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>F</kbd>, and start typing. At the risk of stating the obvious, hitting <kbd>Esc</kbd> will clear the filter.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

* When making a pull request from within GitKraken Client, selecting a branch would make the text color go dark. Like, <code>same color as the background</code> dark. Weird. Fixed.
* Some <code>.git/config</code> URL entries would cause some repos to fail to open. We&rsquo;ve fixed that issue, because if you had to choose **_one_** thing you&rsquo;d want GitKraken Client to do, it would probably be &ldquo;open a repo.&rdquo;
* When cloning a new repo and using GitKraken Client to create an initial commit, that repo&rsquo;s remote would not show up in the UI, but it does now.
* Under some circumstances (involving team names and repo names in Bitbucket), GitKraken Client would fail to create Bitbucket pull requests. Where it once failed, GitKraken Client now succeeds!
* Let&rsquo;s say you _were_ able to make a Bitbucket pull request. Well, you were still not out of the woods, because some Bitbucket PRs would not show in the left panel even if they _were_ successfully created. The left panel now shows them all.
* Relative commit dates in the graph were off by 1. If &ldquo;off by 1&rdquo; sounds like an unwelcome state of affairs, tha&rsquo;'s because it is. And, as such, it has been fixed.
* For some users, the file history would serve up this bland message: <code>searched until invalid date ()</code>. Whatever that means, it&rsquo;s not a message you&rsquo;ll see anymore, thank goodness.

***
<a id="v1-7-1"></a>
## Version 1.7.1
<h3>Wednesday, October 5, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

* We stopped the <code>WIP</code> text field from repopulating itself after a commit was made. That was pretty, pretty annoying, wasn&rsquo;t it.
* We stopped along the road for a bite to eat. The cowboy went off to have a spare tire patched, and Eddie and I sat down in a kind of homemade diner, connected to the wifi and started up GitKraken Client. It crashed. I thought nothing crashed on a Mac; you could hear my raspy cries clear across the plains, across the whole gray world of them that day. A GitKraken dev came booming into the diner, calling my name, and he had the sweetest bugfixes.<br>
<br>
&ldquo;Rustled me up a terminal script to get rid of the <code>.DS_Store</code> file causing crashing issues on macOS.&rdquo;<br>
<br>
And he gave me this script, to manually delete the <code>.DS_Store</code> file that prevented startup and prevented auto-updates because the app wouldn't start up to access those automatic updates.<br>

<pre><code>rm ~/.gitkraken/profiles/.DS_Store</code></pre><br>

He threw himself on a stool and went hyaw hyaw hyaw hyaw.<br>
<br>
He told me that if I'd rather, I could <a href='https://www.gitkraken.com/download/mac' target='_blank' rel='noopener'>manually download the latest macOS version of GitKraken here</a> and replace my install, that would also fix the issue, and the cowboy came back and off we went to Grand Island.

***
<a id="v1-7-0"></a>
## Version 1.7.0
<h3>Re-architectured for Speed- Monday, October 3, 2016</h3>

<h3>New</h3>

* Notice anything different about GitKraken Client? Heh, NBD, just that we went ahead and **_rebuilt the entire Left Panel from scratch_**! That&rsquo;s right, as part of our ongoing refactoring we have migrated our architecture for the left panel (over to <a href='http://redux.js.org/' target='_blank' rel='noopener'>Redux</a>, if you&rsquo;re interested).<br><br>
Rebuilding this panel has allowed us to give you a special gift: **The gift of time.** That left panel is snappier than in previous versions, and for the skeptics among you, here are a couple of speed test results when expanding the left panel, FYI:

    * 200 branches:

        * **v1.6.0:** 269ms
        * **v1.7.0:** 206ms

    * 500 branches:

        * **v1.6.0:** 721ms
        * **v1.7.0:** 214ms

* One of the major reasons for the speed boosts in the left panel is the refactoring of the scrolling module it uses. To do this, some of the GitKraken team built a custom module: meet Rickscroll! Rickscroll intelligently renders only what is visible at any time (say, in that left panel) and never more, making rendering _much_ more efficient.<br><br>
The Rickscroll module is open source and is an actively developed and maintained scroller for React, for all your overflow needs. Check out the package at <a href='http://github.com/implausible/rickscroll' target='_blank' rel='noopener'>http://github.com/implausible/rickscroll</a>. There&rsquo;s also a little more info available <a href='http://tinyurl.com/2fcpre6' target='_blank' rel='noopener'>here</a>.
* Given that this overhaul does so much under the hood, we would be inclined to say &ldquo;it&rsquo;s fast, now move on, nothing to see here.&rdquo; But there is actually plenty to see, because while we were in there with our construction vehicles and hard hats, we also dusted off our pencils, pens and paintbrushes and made a bunch of UI and UX improvements. Here&rsquo;s a breakdown of what&rsquo;s different:

    * Section headers will now stick to the top of the left panel when scrolling.
    * The currently checked-out branch is now highlighted in green and has a checkmark icon, so it&rsquo;s kind of hard to miss.
    * Labels no longer animate to reveal hide/show or solo icons&mdash;that keeps things simpler in that small space and makes it less likely you&rsquo;ll inadvertently click the wrong thing.
    * WAIT, WHERE DID THE SOLO ICON GO? We removed the solo button from the label itself, but don&rsquo;t panic, Yngwie Malmsteen, you can still solo. The &ldquo;soloing&rdquo; state is now initiated via the context menu.  Once initiated, additional branches can be soloed by clicking the solo icon next to them.
    * The icon to hide branches and tags from the graph (that green eye) will still appear on hover, by the way.
    * Each type of item (branch, pull request, tag, stash) now has its own icon, so they&rsquo;re easier to visually differentiate in large lists. Small lists too, but especially for large lists.
    * Buttons that open the sliding panels (for things like adding a remote or creating a PR) are now all aligned to the right of the row.
    * Drag and drop styling has been modified to be more clear and intuitive, with an icon appearing next to the currently-hovered drop target.
    * We went ahead and increased the overall level of sexiness in the left panel. The sexiness levels were pretty high originally, but we opted to make efforts to increase these levels to achieve optimal sexiness.

<h3>Improved</h3>

* We&rsquo;ve changed the default <em class='context-menu'>Preferences <i class='fa fa-caret-right'></i> Authentication <i class='fa fa-caret-right'></i> Use local SSH agent</em> checkbox state to be _UN_checked on macOS and Windows. Before, that was checked by default, and caused confusion for some of you who were not actually using a local agent.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

* **Mac only:** Looks like the <code>Undo/Redo/Cut</code> commands were missing from the Edit menu. Fine, whatevs, you can have those back.
* When creating a new Pull request, branch dropdown lists were not always populating. They now populate consistently.
* Take a quick look at the following line of text:<br>
    <code>**/example*/**</code><br>
    This may seem harmless enough, but having a line like this in your .gitignore file would cause GitKraken Client to re-open that repo, forever, thanks to a bizarre &lsquo;more than one double asterisk in a single line of your .gitignore file&rsquo; bug. Shout out to <a href='https://twitter.com/robert_p_king' target='_blank' rel='noopener'>Rob King</a> for reporting that bug and freeing us of this purgatory! We fixed it!

***

## Version 1.6.1
<h3>Monday, September 19, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>
* Some users were getting errors trying to open all repositories. That was not a feature; it was a bug we&rsquo;ve now squashed.
* Remember all the way back in v1.5.2 when we fixed that issue with repeated logins? We&rsquo;ve improved our fix for that, ensuring that you will _super-never-be-asked-repeatedly_ to log in.
* That&rsquo;s all! Not too exciting, but we&rsquo;re always trying to improve stability as we go. If you&rsquo;d like to read more, in the spirit of generic bugfix release notes, here&rsquo;s some filler:
    * We update the app regularly so we can make it better for you. Get the latest version for all of the available features and improvements. Thanks for using GitKraken Client!
    * Minor text fixes.

***
<a id="v1-6-0"></a>
## Version 1.6.0
<h3>Monday, September 12, 2016</h3>

**Login with your GitHub Account!**

<h3>New</h3>

*   Login with your GitHub account! This is a huge improvement for the activation process of GitKraken Client, meaning you no longer have to set up a separate account to use the app. Instead, it's just a two-step process to get yourself up and running using your GitHub account.

    > OAuth I love you
    > You and your quicker process
    > To use GitKraken

*   **New fuzzy command:** In the fuzzy finder, you can now "open repo in explorer" to go directly to your repo in your OS file system.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   We fixed some pretty gnarly file behavior. When you delete files and then create a branch, those files would just come right back and sit there smugly. In addition, _renaming_ files and then creating a branch would not only keep the previously-named files, but add new files with the new names. Precisely what you _didn't_ want. It's fixed, promise.
*   When browsing for SSH keys on a Mac, GitKraken Client now sees all, showing hidden files regardless of your Finder settings.
*   If you tried to add a new remote or clone a repo from GitHub/Bitbucket, GitKraken Client would default to using SSH even if that wasn’t set up. We weren't trying to convince you one way or the other, and recognize that you are your own person, with your own ideas, feelings and preferences. We have fixed this issue to reflect that.

<h3>Improved</h3>

*   In-app support form **<span style='color: #15a0bf'>Pro Feature</span>**
    *   We added a "get support" form for Pro users to request support. You'll find it through the feedback button at the bottom of GitKraken Client, or through the application menu under Help.

***
<a id="v1-5-4"></a>
## Version 1.5.4
<h3>Monday, August 29, 2016</h3>

**Faster, Cleaner, More Polished**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   Sometimes, a truncated branch label would be obscured by another branch label to its right. This was probably something to do with z-indexes or something. Either way, your branch labels will no longer live in the shadows when in a hover state.
*   Imagine you’re taking a tour of a historic castle or monument, and the moment you acknowledge your tour guide, he or she bolts to the door and runs off into the distance, never to be seen again. Weird, right? Well that’s basically what was happening with our new user tour. If you clicked on a tour bubble, the tour would end, just like that. This no longer happens.
*   _Now_ imagine that you’re on that same tour, and the replacement tour guide recommends you take the lead and go through a door, but once you have gone through the door you find yourself outside, unable to get back in and resume your tour. Again, that’s basically what was happening in _our_ tour. On the second step where the user is asked to click the preferences menu item, if the user clicks the tour bubble, the tour would break. Not any more!
*   In some cases, opening a repo with a graph less svelte than the current repo would fudge the rendering of the lines. We’ve fixed that.
*   Attempting to supply an SSH URL in an incorrect format would throw you a cryptic error that was heart-sinkingly useless to people who are not machines. We now have a more human-friendly message to help you correct the formatting and be on your way.
*   Sometimes, hidden branches would decide that being hidden was the best thing in the world, and never unhide. All hide/unhide behavior now functions as expected.
*   When cloning from the Bitbucket tab, the list of available repos will more closely match the repos on your Bitbucket.org home screen.
*   The account screen now opens in-app.
*   The <kbd>Esc</kbd> key once again closes full-page views because it was annoying that it didn’t.
*   If GitKraken Client was asked to check out a hidden branch, it would have an existential crisis and throw an error, and this no longer happens.

<h3>Improved</h3>

*   Commit autoselection has been improved!
*   “Command Palette” keyboard shortcut has been included in the keyboard shortcut modal.
*   Windows and Linux users: you finally have a preferences keyboard shortcut! Hit <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>,</kbd> to open preferences.
*   Fetching a single remote now updates pull requests.
*   Cherry pick prompt now gives you the option to cancel.
*   Expanding/collapsing the ref panel is snappier. So smooth!
*   GitKraken Client’s ability to open the most massivest of repos has been improved. To prove it, we managed to open the Linux repo without breaking GitKraken Client, our computer, Linux, GitHub or the Internet.
*   Toolbar labels can now be switched on or off as preferred by the user.

***
<a id="v1-5-3"></a>
## Version 1.5.3
<h3>Tuesday, August 16, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   Fixed an issue where, if a stash was applied that resulted in a merge conflict, the graph wouldn’t update.
*   Sometimes, popping a stash wouldn’t put work directory updates into the graph, and that would make it look like the stash had been deleted. Which was, frankly, terrifying. And unacceptable. We’ve fixed it.
*   Auto-selection of WIP node works where it was not working before.
*   Fixed a graph issue where creating a branch would make it look like the previously checked out branch is _still_ checked out. Ooh, that _naughty_ graph. _Do behave_.
*   In some cases, switching to a different repo while viewing a new merge conflict would cause GitKraken Client to get freaky and create its own bizarro reality. This was not destructive behavior, but we imagine it was really, really confusing and annoying to affected users. We’re sorry for the inconvenience and we have fixed the issue.

***
<a id="v1-5-2"></a>
## Version 1.5.2
<h3>Thursday, August 4, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   Commit Summary input field is no longer broken in Japanese input mode. ごめんなさい!
*   Speaking of the Commit Summary field: it no longer jiggles and jives like your drunk uncle at a wedding. We’re sorry that ever happened, but at least it never talked politics.
*   The tutorial would sometimes cut off during upgrade, but it doesn’t anymore.
*   We’ve addressed an issue where users might be prompted unnecessarily for login.
*   Linux now shows the correct package version.
*   Some users were finding that focusing GitKraken Client window would take them on a long, tedious journey where the currently open repo would continually re-open, fail, and then try to re-open, ad infinitum. This should no longer happen.
*   Fixed an issue where dragging a branch on the graph would not show a hover image.
*   Fixed an issue where Bitbucket SSH key management could get stuck in a _bad state_.
*   Fixed at least some of the whitescreening that certain users were experiencing.
*   The uncommitted file lists now stack side-by-side in tall layout instead of vertically (this makes preparing a commit in tall layout much more convenient).

***
<a id="v1-5-1"></a>
## Version 1.5.1
<h3>Friday, July 29, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   Fixed a white screen issue that some Windows users were experiencing
*   For some OS X users, our update button got stagefright and would disappear. This update reveals a new, confident update button that always appears when it’s needed.

***
<a id="v1-5-0"></a>
## Version 1.5.0
<h3>Thursday, July 28, 2016</h3>

**Introducing GitKraken Pro: Your Professional FancyKraken** 

This latest release brings a brand new paid version of the app, as well as some substantial improvements to the free version. Both versions will continue to be developed side-by-side, and as always, release notes will appear here with each update.

For more info on GitKraken Pro, please check out the [Pro page](https://gitkraken.com/pro). To learn more about the story behind monetizing the app, check out our [blog post](https://blog.axosoft.com/2016/07/28/introducing-gitkraken-pro/).

<h3>New</h3>

*   **Tree view** mode is now available for the staging panel, because sometimes you just need to see those file parents and their kiddies. You can also:
    *   Toggle between the full file path view and the tree view
    *   Sort folders and files alphabetically in ascending or descending order
    *   Stage/unstage all files in a folder! This feature hopefully makes your staging management more convenient and _much_ faster if you need to stage/unstage lots of files at once.
*   **In-app merge tool** updates:
    *   Remember when GitKraken Client&rsquo;s merge tool didn&rsquo;t have syntax highlighting? That&rsquo;s _so_ version 1.4! As of this version, <code style='color:#d0d0d2;'><span style='color: #66cccc;'>you</span>.<span style='color: #cc99cc;'>canEnjoy</span>(<span style='color: #99cc99;'>&apos;a more sensical comparison of your code&apos;</span>)</code> with the new <code style='color:#d0d0d2;'><span style='color: #66cccc;'>syntax</span>.<span style='color: #6699cc;'>highLighting</span>();</code>
    *   User interface refinements:
        *   Removed a lot of unnecessary buttons that were just kind of hanging around and giving the neighborhood a bad name
        *   Left and right panels now hide to allow more room to view your code in the merge tool.
*   **Introducing GitKraken Pro!**
    *   [GitKraken Pro](https://gitkraken.com/pro) is our new paid version, and it includes a couple of awesome new features (see below) as well as email-based support.
    *   We’ve updated GitKraken Clientapp to allow you to manage your GitKraken account and Pro subscription at any time, or you can visit [app.gitkraken.com](https://app.gitkraken.com).
*   **Profiles!** **<span style='color: #15a0bf'>Pro Feature</span>**
    *   **Add and quickly switch between multiple profiles:** This is ideal if you often need to switch between different projects (such as work & personal projects). Profiles store settings like:
        *   The name and email address you use when signing commits, as well as optionally update your global `.gitconfig` when switching projects
        *   Authentication info (GitHub/Bitbucket credentials)
        *   Repos
        *   Color themes
        *   Profile avatars
*   **In-app merge tool editor** **<span style='color: #15a0bf'>Pro Feature</span>**
    *   When handling a merge conflict, Pro users can edit the final output in-app before resolving.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   The last repo in a list of less than 5 repos would style incorrectly. That’s an oddly specific visual bug that we’ve now fixed.
*   Staging and then unstaging the currently viewed file would start loading just fine. But here’s the kicker: it would never _finish_ loading. Now it does.
*   After searching for and finding a commit, the diff for the commit would load forever. That’s too long, so we’ve reduced it to “a finite and reasonable amount of time.”
*   On the `Set Upstream` dialog, an incorrect default value would be populated in some cases.
*   The Linux update would sometimes display an available update as version [object Object]. Not technically a _lie_, but not the most informative output. We’ve fixed it to always show the version number.
*   `.gitignore` should be properly handled now and no longer ignore your ignore settings. It was meta like _Being John Malkovich_, only just annoying and inconvenient. Now it’s more like any Nicolas Cage movie: It’s exactly what you’d expect. It’s a Nicolas Cage movie. It’s fine. It does what it’s supposed to do. No surprises.

<h3>Improved</h3>

*   We’ve updated our [end user license agreement](https://gitkraken.com/eula) for this release and added a [privacy policy](https://gitkraken.com/privacy), just so you know.
*   Mac users: sorry if you enjoyed waiting for GitKraken Client to start up. It’s just that we went and _made the app load time 200% faster!_ NBD.

***
<a id="v1-4-1"></a>
## Version 1.4.1
<h3>Thursday, June 2, 2016</h3>

**Bugfix Release**

GitKraken Client in Mac OS X has learned a valuable lesson, and we are sorry for its recent behavior.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   “I will not open multiple windows when you focus my window”
*   “I will not open multiple windows when you focus my window”
*   “I will not open multiple windows when you focus my window”
*   “I will not open multiple windows when you focus my window”
*   “I will not open multiple windows when you focus my window”

***
<a id="v1-4-0"></a>
## Version 1.4.0
<h3>Wednesday, June 1, 2016</h3>

**GitKraken: Houseclean Your Repo!**

Okay, so maybe that’s not the most exciting slogan we’ve used, but this release packs some big new features, many of which aim to make your repos and their views tidier and more efficient. Consolidate commits, choose the merge options that are most helpful to your team, and stage only those hunks and chunks you love the most. Here’s the full breakdown of what’s new:

<h3>New</h3>

*   **Squash commits:** You can now select a bunch of adjacent commits (in the same branch only), right-click and select “squash” to consolidate them into one single commit.
*   **Option to merge without fast-forwarding:** Previously, GitKraken Client would fast-forward your merges where possible. But, since some people find the tree view that results from regular merging more useful than the view that results from fast-forwarding (even when fast-forwarding is available), GitKraken Client will now let you choose a regular merge instead of fast-forwarding. _You may merge, humans_.
*   **Discard hunks/lines:** Want less hunks on-stage? When previewing unstaged files, you now have the option to discard hunks from that commit. You can also get really detailed by selecting lines, right-clicking and discarding those lines specifically. _Hunky_.
*   **New command palette:** It’s a new, err, palette, dedicated to, umm, commands. It works like the fuzzy finder, but whereas the fuzzy finder is used to open/change anything relating to views and panels, the control palette is used to trigger actions that affect your repo:
    *   Open the command palette with shortcut <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>
    *   Type your command: Undo/Redo, Fetch All, Create Branch, Create/Apply/Pop Stash, Stage/Unstage/Discard All Files
    *   **Please note:** We have moved the `Checkout Branch` command from the fuzzy finder to the command palette because it’s less findy and more commandy, and so it belongs there.
*   **In-app license and .gitignore generation:** When initializing a repo via GitHub or Bitbucket, you can now specify a license and a .gitignore template. These will be pushed to your repo upon initialization.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   Multi-selected commits are now ordered by author date in the commit panel.
*   The option to “Add as a remote” enjoyed playing peekaboo in pull request context menus. In fact, it would play it so well that it wouldn’t even appear as an option. We’ve fixed that, sorry.
*   Submodules were not showing parent branches if that submodule was not in the root folder of the parent repository. That shouldn’t happen, and it no longer does.
*   The in-app merge no longer fails to load if neither version had any matching lines.
*   Some memory leak issues were persisting and we’ve been working hard to fix them. We know things like this can be a pain, and hope that these leaks spring no more.

<h3>Improved</h3>

*   **Authentication pages** for GitHub and Bitbucket have been overhauled and should be much improved. Here are some of the notable improvements:
    *   Connection status to hosting services is clearly visible and easy to change.
    *   You can set whether GitKraken Client uses your local agent or a specific SSH key.
    *   SSH keys can be labeled when generated in GitKraken Client.
    *   SSH keys set or generated for each service are now clearly displayed so they can be easily connected/disconnected from those services.
*   We reduced the sizes of our download files by 30-50%, saving you disk space and _Making the World a Better Place_.

***
<a id="v1-3-0"></a>
## Version 1.3.0
<h3>Monday, May 9, 2016</h3>

**Shortcuts**

Just because we’re tempting you away from the shell, doesn’t mean we hate typing. We love keyboards! This release addresses some much-requested features and fixes, focusing on keyboard shortcuts that aim to speed up your interactions with GitKraken Client.

<h3>New</h3>

*   You can now select multiple commits to view the differences between those commits. It mostly works like you’d expect from a file manager:
    *   <kbd>Click</kbd>: Selects a single commit (you’ve probably done this before).
    *   <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>click</kbd>: Adds the clicked commit to currently-selected commits.
    *   <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>click</kbd>: Adds all ancestor commits from the previous selection up to your current selection.
*   You can now change the zoom level in three ways:
    *   Keyboard shortcuts (the quick way):
        *   <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>+</kbd>: Zoom in
        *   <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>-</kbd>: Zoom out
        *   <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>0</kbd>: Reset zoom
    *   Fuzzy finder (the typey way)
    *   Status bar (the clicky way): Click on the zoom level down there.
*   New keyboard shortcuts have been added! Hit <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>/</kbd> to view a list of all available keyboard shortcuts, including those for undo/redo, toggling the left panel, staging/unstaging all files, zooming, and arrow-key aliases. (Yes, it’s a shortcut to view shortcuts. And it gets even more existential when you see that this keyboard shortcut is itself featured in the list of keyboard shortcuts that you opened using this keyboard shortcut. _Whoa_.) Here are some other context-specific shortcuts:
    *   If commit message or WIP input is focused:
        *   <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Enter</kbd>: Create commit
        *   <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>Enter</kbd>: Stage all files and create commit
    *   If a staging panel file is open:
        *   <kbd>S</kbd>: Stage file
        *   <kbd>U</kbd>: Unstage file
*   We sent some of our keys to school to make them smarter. We’re so proud of them! Here’s what they learned:
    *   <kbd>Esc</kbd> key now closes most things that are open like a good <kbd>Esc</kbd> key should.
    *   <kbd>Arrow</kbd> keys: When a file is open, arrow keys will switch between files in the same commit instead of moving you to a different commit.
*   More options added to the fuzzy finder: Open, clone, or init a repo, open settings page, toggle left panel, change zoom level, and view keyboard shortcuts.
*   Right-clicking on a remote now gives you the option to open that remote in your web browser.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   Loading huge files (about 5k+ lines) in the in-app merge panel is much faster.
*   Most prompts and form inputs will now auto-focus when opened.
*   Fixed error that occurred when trying to open a repo with merge conflicts that had soloed branches.
*   The Pull Requests list no longer fails to load if any pull request was from a repo the user does not have access to.
*   If there were no pull requests pending, the list would straight up lie and say it was “Loading...” forever. Now it tells the truth: there are 0 pull requests.
*   Bitbucket clone repo would sometimes not list every repo, but now, it does.
*   Fixed an issue where you couldn’t initialize a repo in Bitbucket if you did something **_zany_**, like use uppercase letters or spaces in the repo name.
*   Fixed not being to change the root drive in Init Repo.
*   Fixed all files becoming unstaged when right-clicking a staged file and choosing “Discard Changes.”
*   Opening the in-app merge tool now scrolls you to the first conflict automatically.
*   Sometimes the in-app merge tool would get stubborn and not let you scroll far enough to see the end of a long line. Now it will let you scroll right to the end.
*   **Special note and shout out:** A large number of bug fixes were made in addition to the above, thanks to the awesome bunch of people who worked on a significant update to [NodeGit](https://github.com/nodegit/nodegit/releases/tag/v0.13.0). Thank you!

***
<a id="v1-2-0"></a>
## Version 1.2.0
<h3>Monday, Apr 25, 2016</h3>

**Merge tool IN APP!**

We are often asked: what’s the best merge tool to use with GitKraken Client? The answer with v1.2 is… **GITKRAKEN!**

<h3>New</h3>

*   That’s right! Now you can compare merge conflicts side-by-side, and resolve the conflict without ever leaving GitKraken Client. This feature is a huge, HUGE step for the app and for its users, so here are the highlights:
    *   The obvious: compare text files side-by-side.
        Click one version’s button (_A only_ or _B only_) to select that version.
    *   Compare the usual text files, image files, and select which versions of binary files to take.
    *   Take elements of each file using a handy checkbox for each conflict in each file. You can take all changes in a file, or select specific hunks or lines from each file.
    *   Next and previous buttons help you quickly find the next and, umm, previous conflicts in the file without having to scroll your life away.
    *   Look, we’re not in the business of telling you what to do. If you’d rather use your own merge tool, you can click the _Open in merge tool_ button and handle things there. GitKraken Client will leave a light on for you when you return.The merge tool feature gets at the heart of GitKraken’s principle to minimize unnecessary interactions and do away with dependencies. We put a lot of effort into it, and we hope you love it.
*   You can now create a new repo on your GitHub/Bitbucket account directly from within GitKraken Client. Yep, we’re pretty keen on keeping you in the app with this version.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   When viewing file diffs, graph scrolling sometimes got weird. We’ve made it behave normally.
*   The graph would always scroll HEAD into view when the user was in a detached HEAD state. This sounds more gruesome than it was, but it was annoying and we’ve fixed it.

***
<a id="v1-1-0"></a>
## Version 1.1.0
<h3>Tuesday, Apr 12, 2016</h3>

**Fuzzy finder, stash section and bug fixes**

We’ve been quick to get this release out with a small but significant bunch of updates:

<h3>New</h3>

*   Fuzzy finder: A new and faster way to interact with GitKraken Client's most-used processes! Less clicking around to find stuff == more productive!
    <kbd>⌘ | Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd> opens a new text field, in which you can begin typing a command followed by a name:
    *   `open` + `{repo name}`: open a repo
    *   `checkout` + `{branch name}`: checkout a branch
    *   `history` + `{filename}`: view a file’s historyAnd, because it’s fuzzy, you don’t need to be 100% accurate in your commands (you don’t even _need_ to type the command but it helps narrow down the options). The Kraken will guess what you are trying to do and offer useful suggestions in a contextual dropdown (think Atom’s fuzzy finder rather than Microsoft’s Clippy).
*   Stashes are easier to manage now that they have their own section in the left panel. Quickly _pop_ or _delete_ them from one location.

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   Sometimes, the search box would get stuck “loading” or “populating.” We fixed that issue, and while we were in there, we sped up the search indexing.
*   Branch labels are now smarter at resizing, and the branch labels section of the graph takes up less space.
*   The graph would sometimes suddenly get weird during a merge conflict. Sorry about that! We’ve fixed it.

***
<a id="v1-0-0"></a>
## Version 1.0.0
<h3>Tuesday, Mar 29, 2016</h3>

**Axosoft unleashes GitKraken Client V1.0!**

This is it! The big ONE! We’ve worked hard on improving the reliability of the app, and we’re delighted to bring you Version 1 of GitKraken Client. Here are the highlights:

<h3>Fixed</h3>

*   Occasionally, when resetting diffs in GitKraken Client (if you have a new file in your working directory), you’d receive an error message about updating diffs for a file that does not exist. This very message was an error, making the whole experience a meta nightmare that we have now resolved.
*   Blame view: if you renamed a file, the blame would show “unknown” under the previous name. We were to blame for this, and we have now branched the naming so that you can follow name histories and point the finger at your fellow devs once more.
*   `775b3d237e52df5b11e1f3f346b13fc7dbd80e39`
    Oh, you _can’t_ read SHA hashes? We’ve updated submodule conflicts to make sense to human beings with more conflict info.
*   If a drag-and-drop up-to-date merge fails, it no longer screams silently. You’ll get a message telling you so.
*   White screening: When you launch GitKraken Client, it should do something other than nothing. We’ve worked our tentacles to the bone(?) to ensure that white screens of death do not happen on as many platforms and in as many configurations as possible.

<h3>Known Issue</h3>

*   We are working hard to add proxy support to GitKraken Client, but currently, users that go through proxies will likely run into issues.
