---

title: GitKraken Client Release Notes
description: View a history of the new features and fixes in GitKraken Client's Version 4.
og_image: /img/GitKrakenClient-Hero.png

---

Behold the evolution of GitKraken Client! Find out what&rsquo;s new, what&rsquo;s fixed, or just take a trip down memory lane with a nostalgic swagger, remembering those bugs of yesterday.

***

<a id="v4-2-2"></a>
## Version 4.2.2<br>
<h3>Wednesday, February 6th, 2019</h3>

<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>
* For those of you that didn’t appreciate Inception, we resolved an issue with duplicate repository names appearing in the breadcrumb list when a submodule had the same name as a recently opened repository.
* What good is a Blame button when there’s nobody to blame? The History and Blame buttons will now only appear for appropriate files.
* We all want to feel welcome, but Keif was getting a little carried away… Now, when opening a repository from the CLI using the -p argument, GitKraken Client will open the repository instead of the welcome screen. 
* The History and Blame buttons will no longer throw the error: “File path to get history is required.”
* The error message “GitUrlParse.default.stringify is not a function” will no longer appear when cloning or pushing from a TFS instance.


***

<a id="v4-2-1"></a>
## Version 4.2.1<br>
<h3>Tuesday, January 22nd, 2019</h3>

<h3>Improvements</h3>
* For the 1 percenters, GitKraken Client now ships with a .rpm option for easy installation on CentOS, RHEL, or Fedora.
* We nixed the 2 helpers who were sapping memory and system resources. You could call it, a clean bill of help 🏥. 
* Yes, we got up on the wrong hide of the bed. The keyboard shortcut to open history view has now been changed to <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>H</kbd> to not interfere with the “Hide” option on MacOS.


<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>
* Now you don't have to be Sherlock Holmes; the error message for creating a branch that conflicts with a branch directory is now clearly s-p-e-l-l-e-d-o-u-t-f-o-r-y-o-u.
* Windows users take a glass 🥂: the `Edit on Bitbucket Server` button should no longer take you to a 404 page. 
* <s>For users who prefer to compile their OS,</s> Linux users should now be able to open their terminal from GitKraken Client.
* When you truly need to ESCape a situation, the Fuzzy Finder and Repository Management modals will now correctly close with the ESC key if no repository is open.
* Nobody likes a blank image. Repositories under a private group on GitLab.com will have their avatars render as the GitLab logo instead of a blank image.
* We get it. You don't like Tetris. Fine. Diffs for rebased commits will no longer display out of order.
* It turns out, you do use this feature. Good to know: The `Open with GitKraken` context menu option on Windows should now open GitKraken Client instead of throwing an error message.
* The blame & history buttons will no longer appear for untracked files. We don't know why you're not tracking these files in a tool designed for tracking, but who are we to judge?

***

<a id="v4-2-0"></a>
## Version 4.2.0<br>
<h3>Wednesday, January 2nd, 2019</h3>

<div class='embed-container embed-container--16-9'>
    <iframe width='560' height='315' src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/tSpd3bFc00s' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


<h3>Features</h3>
* Life’s a beach! GitKraken Pro users can now integrate their clients with Bitbucket Server to see a list of repositories that can be cloned and added. There are sunny days ahead 🌞 for Bitbucket Server users because this integration enables you to open pull requests or initialize repositories from within GitKraken Client.
* Error logging has been added into GitKraken Client. Users can access the error log from the Help Menu or the Fuzzy Finder. This error log will display the ten most recent error toasts that occured within the application. Let’s toast to that! 🥂


<h3>Improvements</h3>
* The VSTS integration has been renamed to Azure DevOps and now supports the new URL format (in addition to the older VSTS format). 
* You can now access File History and the Blame view from a file’s diff view. 
* Several keyboard shortcuts have been added:

	* Fetch (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>L</kbd>)
	* Create a Branch (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>B</kbd>)
	* Open File History in the Fuzzy Finder (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>H</kbd>)

* A filter bar has been added to the right panel when `View all files` is selected.
* Hovering over a merge commit will now display a tooltip with the commit author’s name.
* Hovering over a stash will now display a tooltip with the full name. 🔎
* Hovering over a repository, branch, or file name will display a tooltip with the full path and name.
* When discarding changes to an individual file, the prompt will now display the file name.
* The branch “ahead” and “behind” icons have been changed to improve visibility. 👈👉
* The pull request description field can now be expanded.
* A filter has been added to the keyboard shortcuts window. This window can be accessed using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>/</kbd>.


<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>
* Initializing GitFlow on a repository with an existing local `develop` branch will no longer throw an error, `Failed initializing Git Flow commit.id is not a function`.
* Lines that would connect reference labels to a commit should no longer appear in the graph if the reference label is hidden.
* Launching a terminal from GitKraken Client will no longer set the `NODE_ENV` variable to `production`.


***

<a id="v4-1-1"></a>
## Version 4.1.1<br>
<h3>Tuesday, November 13th, 2018</h3>

Get the 4-1-1:

* Resolved an issue that prevented GitKraken Client from launching on some distributions of Linux.

***

<a id="v4-1-0"></a>
## Version 4.1.0<br>
<h3>Monday, November 12th, 2018</h3>

<div class='embed-container embed-container--16-9'>
    <iframe width='560' height='315' src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/YUiz3uZ_2Gc?rel=0&vq=hd1080' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

GitKraken Client is now smoother than a lumberjack on Timber...

<h3>Features</h3>
* LumberKeif swiped right on GitHub, GitLab and VSTS (including Azure DevOps with legacy VSTS URLs) pull request templates.
* Users can axe commit author gravatars and replace them with author initials. This setting is located under <kbd>Preferences</kbd> → <kbd>UI Preferences</kbd>.


<h3>Improvements</h3>
* Tree-mendous memory improvements!
* Graph scrolling is smoother than a lumberjack on Timber.
* The <kbd>Preferences</kbd> window takes less time to initially load.
* Spruced up the Fuzzy Finder and added these options: <kbd>Open File</kbd> & <kbd>View File</kbd>. Both have the same behavior as the Fuzzy Finder option <kbd>Edit File</kbd>.
* When cloning a repository via URL, GitKraken Client will now strip off any additional spaces at the beginning and end of the URL.


<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>
* For Linux users: Got to the root of the problem, and resolved an issue on some distributions that caused v4.0.6 to throw a `libcrypto` error.
* Tooltips will no longer linger on the LFS dropdown. That was a real pine.
* Removed the context menu option to favorite a repository in the branch breadcrumb menu.
* Resolved an issue that caused duplicate pull requests to appear in the left panel due to having the same remote added with different casings. 
* Initializing a repository in GitKraken Client wood fail if you select a `.gitignore` template. It will no longer do that.
* The <kbd>Edit Submodule</kbd> panel will now correctly update the remote URL when switching between submodules.


***
<a id="v4-0-6"></a>
## Version 4.0.6<br>
<h3>Friday, October 12th, 2018</h3>

<h3>Improvements</h3>
 * Linux users may now notice that there are four builds of GitKraken Client.
  * Fedora, CentOS, & RHEL users should utilize the `.tar.gz` built for Ubuntu LTS 18.04+.

<h3>Bug Fixes</h3>
 * GitKraken Client will no longer crash on Fedora 28 if a repository that has a SSH remote is opened or cloned.
 * Resolved an issue that caused the submodule sliding panel to be much more narrow than intended.
 * Users should now be able to correctly clear out the clone and initialize input fields.


***

<a id="v4-0-5"></a>
## Version 4.0.5<br>
<h3>Wednesday, September 19th, 2018</h3>

<h3>Improvements</h3>
 * Readded editor setting to change the font family. Changing this setting will alter the font in the Diff, File, History, & Blame Views.

***

<a id="v4-0-4"></a>
## Version 4.0.4<br>
<h4>Update Not Found</h4>
<h3>Friday, September 14th, 2018</h3>

<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>
 * Temporarily removed editor setting to change the font family to prevent GitKraken Client from crashing for some users.

***

<a id="v4-0-3"></a>
## Version 4.0.3<br>
<h3>Monday, September 10th, 2018</h3>

<h3>Features</h3>

 * Added editor settings to change the font size and family. This setting is located under <kbd>Preferences</kbd> → <kbd>Editor Preferences</kbd>.
 * Added a setting to remember the last opened repository on startup. This setting is located under <kbd>Preferences</kbd> → <kbd>General</kbd>. 
 * Added an editor setting and Fuzzy Finder option to toggle syntax highlighting on and off. This setting is located under <kbd>Preferences</kbd> → <kbd>Editor Preferences</kbd>.
 * Added a context menu option to delete all branches within a branch folder (local branches only).
 * Added the ability to change theme from the Fuzzy Finder.

<h3>Improvements</h3>

 * Using the stage all and unstage all keyboard shortcuts (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd> & <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>U</kbd>) will now select the WIP node.
 * Disabled several keyboard shortcuts when no repository is open.
 * In the repository management window under the recently opened tab, a browse button has been added if there are no recently opened repositories available.
 * When viewing a file, <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>W</kbd> will close the file instead of closing the whole repository.
 * When performing a Fetch or Pull, the text under the loading icon will now reflect which action is being performed.
 * The prompt to notify a file has been modified externally has been reworked and improved.
 * The sliding panels for Git Flow, Remotes, Pull Requests, and Submodules have been expanded.

<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>
 * For GitLab.com users, context menus will now be generated for the currently checked out commit.
 * Tooltips should no longer linger when clicking buttons in the top toolbar.
 * Unstaging the last hunk of a file would sometimes cause that file not to appear in the unstaged list. This has been fixed.
 * `Esc` will once again close the PR panel.
 * The graph will no longer disappear after creating or editing a file inside of GitKraken Client.
 * Resolved an issue that would cause the File View to blank out when staging new additions to a file.
 * When using Glo inside of GitKraken Client, <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>/</kbd> will no longer open both GitKraken Client and Glo’s keyboard shortcut menus.
 * The discard button should no longer cause the commit panel to shift when multi-selecting files in the staging/unstaging panes.


***

<a id="v4-0-2"></a>
## Version 4.0.2<br>
<h3>Friday, August 17th, 2018</h3>

<h3>Improvements</h3>
 * When viewing a diff, users may now highlight lines to be staged, unstaged and discarded.
 * We changed the appearance of the Push and Pull icons. The new icons should no longer cause users' eyes to bleed.
 * Removed the Blame option for binary files.
 * Staging files quickly will no longer display a `File contents are unchanged` message.
 * Removed several actions from the Fuzzy Finder when no repository is open.

<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>
 * The `Stage all changes` button should correctly appear after hitting the `Mark all resolved` button during a conflict.
 * An error toast will no longer appear after navigating to a commit from File History.
 * An error toast will no longer appear after switching to File View when viewing the diff of a submodule.
 * When creating a Feature, Hotfix, or Release branch in Git Flow, the text will now appear correctly in the input field.
 * After saving a file in the editor, the top toolbar will no longer flash like a strobe light.
 * The tooltip for hosting service icons, on the new landing page, will now correctly display the service's name instead of `GitHub`.

***

<a id="v4-0-1"></a>
## Version 4.0.1<br>
<h3>Monday, August 13th, 2018</h3>

<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>

* "...a glitch in the Matrix. It happens when they change something." The edit profile modal has been cleaned up.
* "Choice.  The problem is choice." There will now be a default diff view mode selected.

***

<a id="v4-0-0"></a>
## Version 4.0.0<br>
<h3>Monday, August 13th, 2018</h3>

<div class='embed-container embed-container--16-9'>
    <iframe width='560' height='315' src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/fZ_Lj3rBNm4?rel=0&vq=hd1080' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

This is your last chance. After this, there is no turning back. You take the blue pill: the story ends, you wake up at your computer with the same Git GUI you’ve always had. You take the red pill: you stay in Wonderland, and I show you what it’s like to develop like a Kraken.

<h3>Features</h3>
* Keif swallowed the red pill and woke up in the construct with some new abilities.  Files can now be edited directly in GitKraken Client! The following features have also been added to file and diff views:
 * Syntax highlighting
 * Word diffing
 * Ability to search within a file (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>F</kbd> when focused)
 * And much more!
* Déjà vu or did something change?  File diffs can now be viewed inline or in Split view, in addition to Hunk view.
* Do not try and bend the file.  Realize the truth: there is no file.  You can now create and delete files from within GitKraken Client. 
 * These options can be accessed through the context menu or from the Fuzzy Finder.

<h3>Improvements</h3>
* There might not be an operator watching your back, so GitKraken’s support documentation is now accessible through the Help menu.
* Mastering the Fuzzy Finder can feel like becoming “The One”.  The Fuzzy Finder can now be opened through the Help menu.
* _Free your mind_ from the graph clutter.  Stashes now have the ability to be hidden from the graph view.
* “Are you sure, Mr. Anderson?”  A confirmation prompt has been added when deleting a stash.
* _What if I told you_ there was an all new way to manage your repos?  Repositories can now be closed (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>W</kbd>), revealing a new view with quick links to open or start new projects.
* It doesn’t take a visit to the Oracle to know that you’re ready to commit. Now, after staging all files through the keyboard shortcut (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>/<kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>S</kbd>), the commit message box will be focused automatically.
* Icons throughout GitKraken Client have been updated.

<h3>Bug Fixes 🐛</h3>
* A glitch in the Matrix, perhaps.  Private groups on GitLab CE and EE will now have their remote avatars display correctly.
* Like conquering a jump between buildings, GitLab projects with spaces in the name should not throw a `404` error after performing a pull or fetch in GitKraken Client. 
* “You’re empty.”  “So are you.”  After merging a branch, GitKraken Client will now correctly set the commit message box to be empty.  
* The commit panel is now able to dodge the long name or path of a file and will no longer get pushed off of the screen.
* Commit Templates will now render correctly after staging and committing a file hunk.
* Resolved an issue that caused GitKraken Client to throw an error when trying to view a deleted file with a missing parent folder.  
* Sometimes history needs to repeat itself, so we resolved an issue that prevented users from copying more than 67 lines of a file.

<h3>Enterprise</h3>
* Fixed an issue with Start TLS for LDAP authentication.
* Resolved an issue that prevented users from registering through the Enterprise account site, when using built-in authentication.
